Video 8
Familiarising with the ubuntu desktop.
We treated how to add guest mode to ubuntu desktop, why we need the linux terminal
1. because of connectivity.
The tilder represents the home folder and the dollar sign represents a regular user and not a super user in the system.
To see the home we use $ pwd command (present working directory)
and to see the folders in home we use $ ls (list directory content)

To create a file we use the command touch

To read the content in a particular file we use the command cat

To make a shortcut we use the tab key on the keyboard

We used the command clear to clear everything, or control L.

Then we used the command tail to show the last part of our file

Then we also used the command head which shows us the first part of the file.


Video 9
We use the command which to know where the file system of a command is stored. eg ; which ls

We used the command which ( It locates a command)

Letter q on the keyboard takes you out of a command

How to know which command does?
We can use the command info with a command to know what a command does. Eg, info which

The command man which is manual does similar thing to info

We used the command cd (This automatically checks for a folder with the command, it is also used to navigate through folders)

The command mkdir to create a folder Eg, mkdir Devops_Folder

To create a folder inside a folder we do, mkdir Devops_Folder/inside_folder

To repeat the command you used lastly you will press the keyboards up arrow.

I used the cd - (cd with the hypen) command

.................................

Video 10
Flags
flags are ways to extend the functionality of the command we are running
To tell the command how I want it to work
To give a command an idea of the expected returned data eg, ls -l(This will give a listed info format)

The command ls - a is used to check hidden files

The command ls -la shows more info about the files and hidden files as well.

rmdir is used to remove a directory in a directory

rm -r command is used to remove a whole directory

rm command is used to remove a file

Video 11

cp command(used to copy a file) eg, Devops Desktop/

mv command(used to move a file and to rename a file)Devops Desktop Renaming: Desktop/Devops Desktop/Learning_linux

echo

Video 12

echo 

Variable

Video 13

Directory tree structure in linux
Another flag 
mkdir -p to create multiple folders at a time

sudo command is used to install a software sudo apt-get install tree

-L flag is used to signify level

bin folder contains binary files and these can't be read as text

cntrl R brings up the last commands you wrote just type few letters

All the binary files are stored in usr/bin

Few other commands are stored in the usr/bin Eg, ls bin or ls usr/bin

Video 14
Linux directories

Boot stores data related to booting up system

CD-rom , we have the mount point

-dev is the location of device files, a device file is an interface to a device driver

etc is where configuration files are kept.

home is where users keep specific files and folders

Video 15
Linux directories

lib libraries are collections of resources used by the computer, they are used by the os kernel. 

lost+found this is often used for system recovery

media

mnt(mount)

opt this is optional or option, it means adding custom functions, this would be in the opt directory

proc this is known as process, the processess the system starts

grep commqnd is used to filter and find something

root

Video 16
The run directory
This is the mountpoint for tempfs filesystem in the computers memory. Temporary data used by processes are kept there. 

df command disk free
df -h a mofre readable format

free command this is used to check the ram memory

free -h

ls /run/*.pid making an exception

id command gives information aboutr a logged in user

Video 17

sbin s=system anything related to the system the system binaries are stored here.
snap where you have done anything related to snap

srv some service some server, this is where service files are kept which means FTP files

sys system, the kernel makes use of this directory

tmp this is where tmp files and directories are kept on disk

usr this is where programs and libraries are been stored 

var this is part ofthe sub directories within the root directory of the linux os which the system uses to write data during the course of its operation
it stores data that gets changed in the course of the operation of the OS

