Video 27
About package manager
Snap can be used to package your software, snap automatically updates software, you get to run the latest software.

Vidde 28
SSH
Client Server can be two computers and both can either be a comouter or the computer itself and one of them sends a request and the other processes the request
eg, browser and website

Network Protocol is an established set of rules that determines how data is transmitted bewtween different devices. 
Eg, TCP Ip, HTTP, FTP
Algorithm are set of rules or a process which needs to be followed to solve a specific problem commonly used in calcultions
Packet is the actual data that is been fragmented. And the unit of the data is considered as packet.
Payload is the actualdata within the packet.
Remote server, this is any computer that is not physically attached to your computer.

SSH- This means secure shell. It is a cryptographic network protocol which means a standard set of rules that is being used to transfer encoded packets over the network.
It uses asymmetric cipher for encryption and decryption of packets.
Asymmetric cipher uses a key pair, which is the public and private keys.
There are several types of encryption algorithms
RSA
DSA
ED25519
SSh uses asymmetric cipher to establish connectivity between client and server.
To send encrypted data across the channel.
What the server does is, once it receives a connection request from the client, it uses the public key that it has to encrypt a data.
Disadvantages of SSH
Any misconfiguration of SSH can affect you from ever being able to login to the system.
If your private key gets lost.

Video 29
OpenSSh server
I created 2 sever machines client and remote. I opened another adapter in the network section in the settings.
it was changed to bridged network so as to have unique IP adresss. 
Then I move over to connecting the remote network to the client network
We first check where our ssh files are kept, ls -latr /home/dan/.ssh
Every user has their .ssh

Then we generate keypair 
ssh-keygen
You will be asked for a passphrase, which is a password. But it can be left blank.

Then we run the ssh server on the remote server
It might not be installed so we do
sudo apt install openssh-server -y
Then we need to copy the public key over to the remote host, to transfer it. We use

ssh-copy-id -i /home/dan/.ssh/id_rsa.pub daniel@remote ipaddress
In other for this to work you have to get the ip address of your remote host. 
To do that, you will go to your remote host, then type. 

ifconfig

I had some complications getting the ip address so i had to go to my server settings in my VM dashboard then i chose network and changed the adapter to bridged network.
You can now go to your remote host and type ifconfig again
You will see something like enp0s3 there you will get your ip address from inet.
 Now you can connect to your remote host from your client host using this 
ssh-copy-id -i /home/dan/.ssh/id_rsa.pub daniel@remote ipaddress.

Video 30 
Sudoers
sudo useradd -m danny

We can make a user have administrative command by using
sudo vi /etc/sudoers
To be sure your file was saved we use sudo visudo -c

We can remove the user and add it to a group, 
dd - This removes a line.

We can add the member to a group to have priviledges
sudo vi /etc/sudoers
specify the name of the group under the group line then give it all the permissions.
Then create the group
sudo groupadd devops
Then add the usser to the group 
sudo usermod -a -G devops danny

Then check if your saved file doesnt have any error
sudo visudo -c

How to control how the root user can connect to the remote server
sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config

search for permitrootlogin we can search using 
/permit before we edit. 

We remove the comment which is the # then specify
without-password, which means the root can't login without a key.
To test it we use sudo sshd -t

Video 31
securely upload and transfer files remotely sftp

Video 32
Process Managemnet
ps command is used to check the processes running
kill command is used to kill a process

ps -l this gives more information
ps -f this gives more detailed info, like user
ps -lf we can use the two together.
ps -u this shows the processes on all the terminals

a demon is like a process but it runs in the background
ps -e is used to show demons runinng in the backgroud

ps -ef is used to show demons runinng in the background but with more info
ps -x is showing processes and demons too but eith less columns
ps -aux | grep firefox

Video 33
Process Management
Whats the process between a process, daemon and service
A process is the command that gets run when the shell sends the program to the operating system to interpret the binary.
The daemon is when that process gets sent to the background and runs without taking control of the shell.
The service is the daemon but we have more control over it.

example is systemctl status sshd
The PPID is the parent ID which is always number 1.

Video 34
Process Management
fg - foreground
bg - background
nohup
jobs
process states
process signals
You can open up firefox in the terminal by just typing firefox, but it takes over your terminal. 
You havee to use control z to pause it, which means it takes firefox to the background so you can have control of your terminal.
Type jobs to see your jobs
To get your process ID and to kill it, you use, 
ps -ef | grep firefox
Then kill (PID) of the process.
To open a process in the background, we use the;
nohup firefox &
To bring the process back to the forground, we use the command, 
fg %3
